# **Profiling Tools**

### **Gprof:**

Gprof is the profiling tool of gcc toolchain. Compiling project with the "-pg" and specs flags genereates the specific executable. After running the executable there will be file generated  named gmon.out in the location where executable called. call the gprof with ``` gprof project.exe gmon.out > result.txt ``` then a new txt file will be genereated with the properities of the functions.

### **Valgring, Callgrind:**

Tools that helps to detect memory leaks and profiling the application. Most framework has these tools like QT, and there is also external frameworks like ***Heaptrack*** which almost do the same job with these tools. generated outputs are easy to understand with graphs wich generated with those tools.

# **Generator Tools**

### **enscript:**

Comes with gnuwin32 leagcy collection as executable in windows, in linux could be able to get by packet managers. helps yo converts file format to another format like txt to ps.

### **ghostscript:**

A tool which is one of the best program helps the generates file formating. like formating ps format to pdf.

### **Graphviz:**

Graphviz is the one the best tool wich are generating graphs. Could almost generates every format of graphical data to graphs in simple commands. ```dot``` is the file format of the graphiz but could be generated by graphviz itself so doesn't need convert file format before run it.

### **Doxygen:**

Documentation generator tool. with the documentation blocks of the, doxygen generates document with customized (or default) format. Could be able to use with graphviz.

### **FlameGraph:**

A tool also generates graphs, seems like a flame with data. Also generates other type of graphs 